changes from release-jobs (#5)
sbliven/scicat-documentation: Development/v4.x/backend/testing/jobs.md

| 0080 | Add a new public job as a normal user himself/herself with unknown files, which should fail | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0090 | Add a new public job as a normal user himself/herself choosing only specific files | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |

### 1115: Validate Job Action

| Test Number | Description | HTTP Method | Endpoint | Authenticated User | Expected Request Status | Expected Request Code |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 0010 | Create validate job fails without required parameters | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0020 | Create validate job fails with the wrong types | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0030 | Create validate job fails with the wrong types | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0040 | Create validate job fails with the wrong types | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |

> | 0050 | Create validate succeeds with the right types | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0040 | Create validate job fails with the wrong types | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0045 | Create validate fails without datasetList | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0050 | Create validate succeeds with the right types | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
```

Reviewer: But would be better to rename the tests to 0040, 0050, 0060

| 0060 | Update validate fails without the required parameters | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobIdValidate1} | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0070 | Update validate fails with incorrect types | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobIdValidate1} | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0080 | Updating validate succeeds with the required parameters | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobIdValidate1} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |

> ### 1120: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for #all_access jobs type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1120: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for all_access jobs type
```

Reviewer: The job type does not have the `#` symbol.
However, in the test file the title has not changed, it is still `1120: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for #all jobs`

Author: yes, I will create a PR for tests that would rename that on backend. At the very beginning of this file, I explained from where these names come from and in test/config/jobconfig.yaml the job types don't use the hashtag sign

| 0180 | Add a new job as a normal user for his/her group in '#all' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0190 | Add a new job as a normal user for another user in '#all' configuration, which should fail as bad request | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0200 | Add a new job as a normal user for another group in '#all' configuration, which should fail as bad request | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0210 | Add a new job as a normal user for anonymous user in '#all' configuration, which should fail as bad request | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0220 | Add a new job as unauthenticated user in '#all' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | unauthenticated | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0230 | Add a new job as unauthenticated user for another user in '#all' configuration, which should fail as bad request | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | unauthenticated | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |

> | 0240 | Add a status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for his/her job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedAllJobOwnedByAdmin} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0240 | Add a status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for his/her job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAdmin} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |
```

> | 0250 | Add a Status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for another user's job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedAllJobOwnedByUser1} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0250 | Add a Status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for another user's job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByUser1} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |
```

> | 0260 | Add a Status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for another group's job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedAllJobOwnedByGroup1} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0260 | Add a Status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for another group's job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByGroup1} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |
```

> | 0270 | Add a Status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for anonymous user's job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedAllJobOwnedByAnonym} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0270 | Add a Status update to a job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for anonymous user's job in '#all' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAnonym} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |
```

Reviewer: Similarly for all variables that are being used for job updates

| 0860 | Fullfacet jobs as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS that were created by User1 | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=user1 | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0870 | Fullfacet jobs as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS that were created by anonymous user | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=anonymous | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0880 | Fullfacet jobs as a user from CREATE_JOB_GROUPS that were created by admin | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=admin | user1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0890 | Fullfacet jobs as a user from CREATE_JOB_GROUPS that were created by User1 | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=user1 | user1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0900 | Fullfacet jobs as a normal user | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/fullfacet?facet | user5.1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0910 | Fullfacet jobs as a normal user (user5.1) that were created by admin | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=admin | user5.1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |

> ### 1130: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for #authenticated_access jobs type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1130: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for authenticated_access jobs type
```

Reviewer: But the test group title on master branch is `1130: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for #authenticated jobs configuration`

| 0050 | Add a new job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for another user in '#authenticated' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0060 | Add a new job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for another group in '#authenticated' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0070 | Add a new job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS for anonymous user in '#authenticated' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0080 | Add a new job as a user from CREATE_JOB_GROUPS for himself/herself in '#authenticated' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user1 | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0090 | Add a new job as a normal user for himself/herself in '#authenticated' configuration | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | user5.1 | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0100 | Add a new job as unauthenticated user in '#authenticated' configuration, which should fail as forbidden | POST | /api/v4/Jobs | unauthenticated | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |

> ### 1140: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for #dataset_access jobs type

Reviewer: Similarly, title has not been updated

| 0250 | Adds a Status update to a job as a normal user for his/her group in '#jobOwnerGroup' configuration | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByGroup5} | user5.1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulPatchStatusCode``` |
| 0260 | Adds a Status update to a job as a normal user for another user's group in '#jobOwnerGroup' configuration, which should fail as forbidden | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByGroup1} | user5.1 | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |
| 0270 | Adds a Status update to a job as a normal user for anonymous user's group in '#jobOwnerGroup' configuration, which should fail as forbidden | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAnonym} | user5.1 | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |
| 0280 | Adds a Status update to a job as unauthenticated user for anonymous user's group in '#jobOwnerGroup' configuration, which should fail as forbidden | PATCH | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAnonym} | unauthenticated | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |

> ### 1150: Jobs: Test New Job Model Authorization for #owner_access jobs type

Reviewer: Similarly, title not updated

| 0020 | Add dataset 2 as Admin Ingestor | POST | /api/v3/Datasets | adminIngestor | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0030 | Add via /api/v3 a new job without datasetList, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS, which should fail | POST | /api/v3/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0040 | Add via /api/v3 a new job ignoring datasetList from jobParams, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS, which should fail | POST | /api/v3/Jobs | admin | 400 | ```BadRequestStatusCode``` |
| 0050 | Add via /api/v3 an anonymous job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | POST | /api/v3/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
| 0060 | Get via /api/v4 the anonymous job as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAdmin} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0070 | Get via /api/v3 the anonymous job as user1, which should fail | GET | /api/v3/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAdmin} | user1 | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |
| 0080 | Get via /api/v4 the anonymous job as user1, which should fail | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAdmin} | user1 | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |

> | 0090 | Add via /api/v3 a new job with emailJobInitiator for user1, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | POST | /api/v3/Jobs |admin | EntryCreatedStatusCode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0090 | Add via /api/v3 a new job with emailJobInitiator for user1, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | POST | /api/v3/Jobs | admin | 201 |  ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
```

| 0100 | Get via /api/v4 the job added for user1, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByuser1} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0110 | Get via /api/v4 the job added for user1, as user1, which should fail because ownerUser does not exist | GET | /api/v4/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByuser1} | user1 | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |
| 0120 | Get via /api/v3 the job added for user1, as user1, which should fail because ownerUser does not exist | GET | /api/v3/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByuser1} | user1 | 403 | ```AccessForbiddenStatusCode``` |

> | 0130 | Add via /api/v3 a new job with a complete dto for user1 and other contactEmail, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | POST | /api/v3/Jobs" | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0130 | Add via /api/v3 a new job with a complete dto for user1 and other contactEmail, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | POST | /api/v3/Jobs | admin | 201 | ```EntryCreatedStatusCode``` |
```

| 0260 | Get via /api/v3 the job that was previously updated via /api/v4, as user1 for his/her job | GET | /api/v3/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByuser1} | user1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0270 | Get via /api/v3 all accessible jobs as user1 | GET | /api/v3/Jobs | user1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0280 | Get via /api/v3 all accessible jobs as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | GET | /api/v3/Jobs | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0290 | Fullquery via /api/v3 all jobs that were created by user1, as user1 | GET | /api/v3/Jobs/fullquery?createdBy=user1 | user1 | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0300 | Fullfacet via /api/v3 jobs that were created by admin, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | GET | /api/v3/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=admin | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |
| 0310 | Fullfacet via /api/v3 jobs that were created by user1, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | GET | /api/v3/Jobs/fullfacet?facet?createdBy=user1 | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulGetStatusCode``` |

> | 0320 | Delete via /api/v3 a job created by admin, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | DELETE | /api/v3/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAdmin} | admin | SuccessfulDeleteStatusCode |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0320 | Delete via /api/v3 a job created by admin, as a user from ADMIN_GROUPS | DELETE | /api/v3/Jobs/${encodedJobOwnedByAdmin} | admin | 200 | ```SuccessfulDeleteStatusCode``` |
```
